---
layout: post
title: Dungeon of Discomfort!
date: 2020-12-05 12:00:00 -0600
description: Dungeon of Discomfort! by Jason Pape # Add post description (optional)
img: maze.jpg # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: A screenshot of Dungeon of Discomfort! # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [Maze, Javascript, Tumult Hype, Games, Tilesets, Collision Detection, Spritesheet, Computer Science]
---

----
## Project Description
This is an implimentation of a maze game using tilesets. The map and a 2D array were created with <a href="https://www.mapeditor.org/" target="_blank">Tiled</a>. The player must move a player character to the exit before the timer expires. The time remaining is indicated by both a numerical timer and a graphical time meter. The player must collect items in the maze in order to bypass a number of obstacles.

----
## Game
Click <a href="https://jasonkpape.github.io/maze/" target="_blank">HERE</a> to play.

----
## Customization
Students followed along with the instructor to create the base game and were then given two weeks to make the following modifications:

* Create a new maze layout with Tiled and move the 'keys' and 'doors' to new locations
* Replace the player-character image
  * Created a four-direction spritesheet for the player character in so that they will change direction depending on which key is pressed
* Replace at least three of the original audio resources as well as the credits music
  * Replaced all audio resources with music and sound effects of my own creation
* Change the fonts, colors, and background images ang buttons and other elements in all scenes
* Personalize the credits scene

I made the following additional modifications:

* Created a new tileset using Photoshop
* Animated the player character's movement from one tile to the next using jQuery. (The player originally moved to the next tile instantaneously.)
* Increased the number of difficulty levels from two to four
  * Implemented an animated fog effect for certain difficulty levels
* Modified the original "fog of war" mask that makes the player seems enveloped in darkness on some difficulty levels so that it is translucent along the edges
* Replaced the keys and doors with different obstacles and items created in Photoshop
* Changed the title from "Maze Madness" to "Dungeon of Discomfort"
* Altered the splash-screen countdown animation
* Recorded a set of footstep sounds and wrote code to cycle through the samples to create a more realistic effect
* Modified the walking code so that the player moves at a constant speed when the key is held down. Movement is no longer reliant on the keyboard timing settings.
* Modified the collision sound-effect code to sound only when the player tries to intentionally walk through walls or other obstacles.

All art created with Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop.
All music and sound effects created with Propellerhead Reason, <a href="https://sfbgames.com/chiptone/">ChipTone</a>, and Adobe Audition. Unmodified footstep samples sourced from a soundbank in Reason.

----
## Hosting and Usability Testing
 A GitHub account was created and the game was hosted at <a href="https://jasonkpape.github.io/maze/" target="_blank">https://jasonkpape.github.io/maze/</a>. Students were then required to find two volunteers and have each perform a usability test. Students submitted the basic Tumult Hype file and the usability test results, along with a link to the actual game for grading.

----
[RETURN TO HOME](https://jasonkpape.github.io/jekyll-portfolio/)
